# `SHA256 Master Password Generator`

A password generator using the SHA256 hash function. Currently a password generated by this hash function would be prohibitively difficult for virtually any entity to attack.

---

## `Licence`

// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT  
Copyright (c) 2024 [Joseph Anthony Debono](joe@jadebono.com)

---

## `OS`

Code developed on Debian GNU/Linux 12 (bookworm)

---

## `Versions`

1. msgenrust (purely cli) - for Linux/Debian distributions;
1. win64_mastergen (gui only) - Win64, 64-bit versions of Windows 10 and Windows 11.

No MacOS version has been developed since I don't own Mac hardware .

---

## `Code`

Rust versions of the Linux/Debian and Win64 code are provided and may be amended and changed as you please but they'll have to be recompiled. This assumes that you have Rust installed on your OS and you know your way around it.

If you don't want to compile, the executables are found in a compressed (.zip) file in the root of this depository.

## `Purpose`

Good password praxis generally recommends a password of very high entropy for every one of your accounts. A password manager can generate as many highly entropic passwords of significant length as necessary.

However, passwords managers have a glaring vulnerability - they themselves require a master password. Unfortunately, most people generally use passwords that are easy to remember and to type, making them low entropy, and vulnerable to attack in a number of ways, thus vitiating the strength of the passwords protected by your password manager.

Solution: Use a sha256 hash function to generate the master password for the password manager. A hash produced by such a function not only has very high entropy, but it is deterministic, meaning that you can generate it at will as long as you have access to the hash function. This will provide you with a password that you will not remember so is impervious to social engineering attacks. However, you will still be able to generate it easily at any time you need it using simple and memorable phrase and depth inputs.

Moreover, msgenrust outputs the generated password to clipboard. So the password is not visible on screen at any time. This defeats both screen recording malware (that take screendumps of your screen) as well as keyloggers (that record every keystroke you make). All you to do to insert your master password is to paste it into your password manager when you log into it.

---

## `Password Managers`

There are a number of good password managers around. I use Bitwarden and Dashlane. The idea is to use msgenrust to generate an extremely strong password from very easily memorable inputs and to use that as the master password of your password manager. Then you can generate very strong passwords using the password managers for each of your accounts. You need remember no password whatsoever as the password manager automatically fills in your credentials when you log in.,

## `Using the Generator`

1. Input a string in the phrase field. This can be any phrase you like. Since this will be hashed, it will not be your password, but its seed, so you are free to use any character/word/phrase you can remember easily. It does not matter how simple the phrase is because it will be run through the hash function the number of times specified by the depth. For example, using "a" as your phrase with a depth of 10 will generate the following hash as your password: "389acb1da3cc19ae115c89eec398f9f2d2f3d961ff23a76decda54bf9660fac5".

1. Depth is the number of times you want to run the phrase through the hash function and then run the resultant hash back through the hash function. This will give you protection against brute force attempts using the hash function if the attacker suspects the use of one. Even if the attacker guesses the phrase, he will have no idea of the depth, leaving your security intact.

**Example - Phrase: bird, Depth: 7**

The generated password is the **seventh** hash of this process.

0. bird
1. 7a5179eecc0fe18760ba615f92603372ae3fe302860098a019e15927551fee3b
2. 1467d232075b693bd528521179679ec07a083e4f0076ecd2af61607d6b5b2b38
3. 282cf0b370024ec7f617ecc43e57bea2f748b7ea6b22b52ae09cfe997513851b
4. 1d7532e421b85bb72b5d42d2c3aa2f526a5b8204950c02e2949b9ed39d35ea54
5. a455a212dde0f7051228efc31bb03fef5d20761812cf79bbc198d397f718761e
6. c7cc84962be268d578079c3e13694a9230de992f8186c53bc961376705922635
7. 91c2b32ead801dc707c24b022b8497ca0f0ee2afaf13c6c88dc290a594289d95

Your generated password is: 91c2b32ead801dc707c24b022b8497ca0f0ee2afaf13c6c88dc290a594289d95

Note: mastergen has been tested to a depth of 1e10, taking about 110 seconds to generate the output

---

## `Further Notes`

1. Both the phrase and depth fields are inputs of type="password" to hide the inputs from onlookers.
1. Leaving the depth field blank will submit your phrase through the hash function ONCE.
1. Although you should provide nothing but an integer for depth, input validation has been implemented forthis field with the following results:
   - Leaving the depth field blank => Depth is set to 1 (i.e. the phrase will be hashed ONCE).
   - Inputting an float into the depth field => Depth is set to the float rounded to an integer (ex: 3.2 => 3, 4.8 => 5).

---
